p8105_hw1_hj2660
================
Hyun Jin Jung
2023-09-18

### Problem 1

##### Install the **moderndive** package and load **early_january_weather** dataset.

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

The names of variables in early_january_weather: *origin, year, month,
day, hour, temp, dewp, humid, wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip,
pressure, visib, time_hour*

The dataset early_january_weather includes **358 rows** and **15
columns**.

The mean temperature is **39.58212**, with a standard deviation of
**7.058637**.<br> The median time_hour is **2013-01-08 12:30:00 EST**.
<br> The mean humid is **65.4767**, with a standard deviation of
**18.9453**. <br>

#### Scatterplot of Temperature vs Time_Hour

![](p8105_hw1_hj2660_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)<!-- --> The
scatterplot shows how temperature increases as time_hour increases, with
gradient colors representing humidity levels. Patterns in the
scatterplot shows positive correlations between temperature, time_hour,
and humidity.

### Problem 2

##### Create a data frame

``` r
my_df <- data.frame(
  random_numeric = rnorm(10), # Random sample of size 10 from a Normal distribution
  logical_vector = rnorm(10) > 0, # Logical vector indicating if elements are greater than 0
  character_vector = c("A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "H", "I", "J"), # Character vector
  factor_vector = factor(sample(1:3, 10, replace = TRUE), levels = c(1, 2, 3))  # Factor vector with 3 levels
)
```

##### Calculate the mean of each variable

Mean of **random_numeric** is 0.13001. <br> Mean of **logical_vector**
is 0.5. <br> Mean of **character_vector** and **factor_vector** does not
work because these are not numeric or logical.

##### Use ‘as.numeric’ to the logical, character, and factor variables

``` r
my_df <- transform(my_df,
                   logical_vector = as.numeric(logical_vector),
                   character_vector = as.numeric(character_vector),
                   factor_vector = as.numeric(factor_vector))
```

The warning message “NAs introduced by coercion” occurs when attempting
to convert non-numeric data into numeric format using the as.numeric
function. <br> Data that I tried to convert to numeric are non-numeric
data (character_vector and factor_vector), so the values in those
variables could not be converted to numeric, so they were replaced with
NA values. <br> This explains why I can’t calculate the mean of
character_vector and factor_vector, because they are non-numeric data.
